Welcome to another exciting that you are instalment in this one we are going to make sure our host button
works fully.
So by clicking it I can now actually move around the game.
It's no longer just a fake button that doesn't do anything.
It actually really does allow me to basically host a game.
And the way we're going to do this is by properly deactivating our menu properly removing it and preventing
it from having control of the mouse and input.
So without further ado let's dive in and see how that works.
So at this stage in our menu we've noticed that there's a floor when we host our game if I go ahead
and hit host you'll notice it has indeed hosted the game but our input doesn't work.
Now the reason for this is the input is still carrying over from the menu we set up our menu to accept
except all the inputs and it's a menu UI only input and we haven't set that back.
So let's go over into the C++ code and see where this problem is happening.
We can go in to our puzzle platform game instance dot a or rather the C++ file and have a look inside
our load menu.
Our load menu function in our load menu function at least how I got it set up.
You can see we've got a lot of stuff going on with the menu to set it up.
We are adding it to the viewport.
We are finding the first play controller we are then on that play controller setting the input mode
and showing the cursor and all this stuff we want to reverse.
When we go and host our game we want it to re re hide the cursor we want it to set the input mode back
to game only we want it to remove the menu from the viewport if necessary.
Now all of that is possible for sure.
But one thing I don't like here is that in a load menu all this stuff about the menu essentially is
happening in the game instance it doesn't seem like the right place.
It seems like the right place would actually be in the game.
Main Menu cvp itself.
So let's start off by refactoring some of that out.
Now it's going to be a short refractor.
Don't worry some you might be hearing refactoring and saying oh no big re factors but no we're not doing
big re factors here.
Okay so the first thing is to create a public method and be method.
We're going to call is set up.
So I'm going to call it just void set up.
With a capital S. And it doesn't need to take any parameters yet.
I don't know whether it will need to in the end but it doesn't yet.
Let's copy that and go over to the C++ file for the main menu and in here after initialize and perhaps
after a set menu interface we are going to have set up method and defined the body.
I'm going to add a namespace to it.
And that should be about right.
I think we've got that set up.
Next we want to take that code that is in the game instance and bring it over.
So I'm going to start with.
We're not going to do the creating widget that that needs to be done here we need to create that widget.
Here we need to check that it's null here but everything from an to view port down to not set menu interface
so will leave set menu interface as it is.
But everything up to that point we can cut and take and put in our C++ file and the set up method and
hopefully that should more or less just work we're gonna change a couple of things such as menu.
No longer is available in this context we want to be referring to this so be this adding it to viewport.
Get the first play a controller.
Now that doesn't work here in the main menu so let's see what does work.
Let's see whether we can get a play controller some other how.
So just using some autocomplete to have a look here doesn't look like anything there is going to be
particularly useful.
So another hint might be to go looking at the world seeing as this is a property related to the kind
of the root object the world that we're currently in.
If we take a look at their now familiar you world documentation and have a look in here for Play a controller
Let's see what we can find.
Good player.
Let's look for the player controller.
We've got get first player control.
That seems like the one we want.
So I'm going to copy that and we're going to get the world from within our YOU main menu.
So let's go ahead and do that.
First of all I want to check that the world is not null So we're going to install a new world pointer.
To the world.
Equals get a world within here.
Get well basically every new object seems to have.
They get world because it usually exists within a world and we can just check.
We can just ensure that it's not null.
Using my now famous macro.
There we go.
And it is going to then get hold of world.
Arrow.
Get first.
First play control first local play controller would do fine as well.
But I think first play controller is fine here.
It's going to be about the same because at this point we haven't had access to the network anyway.
So then we've got the player control.
We check that the play control controllers not.
Now we've got another instance of menu here which again has had to change to this.
So it's this take widget and then we're setting up the first play controller.
All looks great.
Final thing to do is go ahead and check it all out.
So let's go.
Yes first the C++.
We need to make sure we actually calling that method that we created so it's going to be menu.
Arrow set up.
That seems about right now so let's go ahead and build that and see whether our menu is still working
as it should be.
So the compile has successfully completed.
Let's head back into unreel and just try it out and see whether it's still working.
Hit my house button.
Yeah.
Everything's working exactly as before which is what we'd expect from a refactor as are we got it right.
Next up let's create a stub for that tear down.
So I've already said that in our game instance in the host method after.
We basically are leaving the menu.
We want to tear down that menu stop it from working.
Now to do that we don't want to do it here.
That's the entirely the reason that we've taken our set up out.
So let's go in to the main.
In fact let's go to the header file first and create a tear down method to go in concert with our set
up so we're going to avoid tear down.
All one word and that is what we're going to be calling from our game instance C++.
Thanks to Dan Marshall on the forum for pointing out that a better alternative to using the tear down
method would actually be to override this function belonging to you.
Use a widget called on level remove from world if you override that that's going to get called as it
says here in the remarks.
When the level is basically being killed so you can leave basically up to the menu level and this will
automatically get called so you won't have any problems with accidentally forgetting to call Ted down.
Please excuse the dogs barking outside and foot and I can't do anything about them.
So we're going to go into our house method now and right at the beginning of the host method we want
to check if we have a menu and if we do have the menu we want it to tear it down.
Now currently the menu is local to our load menu but we do want to keep a reference to this menu so
we can later tear it down.
So that is going to be done by going to our game instance dot H and creating a private variable for
that main menu.
So I am just going to do a forward declaration of the class.
The main menu class just copying it over so that I don't make any mistakes typing and it's going to
be a you may many class pointer and it's going to be called menu.
So that's now going to be at private variable.
And then I don't have to declare it locally in load menu anymore.
I will just have that there.
I will have a local variable called menu which I can assign to and in host I can now check if the menu
is not known.
So if menu not equals not pointer.
Then we are able to do some work with it such as tear it down.
Now the reason that I am not doing an insurer here is because I know that it could very well be NULL
for good reason and that good reason could be that we are calling host from the command line in which
case we've never had a menu open.
This could lead to no point errors so we know it's deadly not not within the bounds of if statements
so we can tear it down.
And I'm going to go ahead and build that.
And we will expect areas actually because I haven't created the stub for our tear down method in the
C++.
So let's copy that tear down declaration from the header file go into the C++ under set up and create
our tear down method here under set up and I'm going to create the body of tear down.
And I am going to go ahead and put in an namespace as well.
Okay let's go ahead and build that should now have no problems.
And sure enough when I get it all right we do get a successful build.
Now obviously Ted is not going to do anything just yet.
So let's challenge you to reverse the set up process and create this tear down method.
So the challenge is going to be to use a set up as a base.
Hide the cursor set the input mode and remove from the viewport all of that is in set up so you can
just work through set up and make sure that every step is reversed.
Pause the video and have a go.
Okay welcome back.
Let's have a go at reversing this set up method in our turban.
So first thing is to remove from the viewport.
So let's do this.
Arrow and see if there is a remove from viewport.
Sure enough there is a removed from viewport just as you would expect so that is not too hard.
If I had typed my arrow operated correctly then it would have worked just fine.
Next up we have got to get hold of our player controller if you want to get hold of the input mode so
we're going to I'm just going to copy and paste this nold checking code.
To get hold of our player control arm and then we're going to want to set an input mode.
But this time we don't want to be setting the f input mode you I only want to be using a different input
mode so it's going to be F input.
And then it's going to be input mode game only.
To call it still input mode data.
So I did before.
Remember that we have the documentation here for the input mode data base and we can go and look at
the different datas that there are there's the game only is the one we're using.
And we can see what variables and setters there are available only set consume capture a mouse down
which is whether the mouse down that causes capture should be consumed.
Basically I don't care about that one.
It doesn't really matter so I'm going to leave it to whatever it defaults to being.
So let's go ahead and get our play controller set its input mode to this this new input mode game only
input mode.
And then finally we want to just change our cursor over so that's currently setting the show cursor
to true.
And funnily enough we can be setting it to false.
So let's save that and build and see whether our reversed process is going to pay dividends.
Awesome sauce.
Compile has finished and I've been playing with my Fidge it's been a while it goes as well.
Here's a fun thing to do when compile is taking a while so compile has succeeded.
Let's go ahead and hit play and see if we've got rid of that nasty bug that stopped us from actually
being able to play a game once we hit host hit host and in.
Sure enough I am able to move around there's no menu there I'm able to jump and totally interact with
the menu as I did before.
As are we have successfully created a reverse set up logic which has deactivated our menu and allows
us to carry on playing.
Very happy with that pat yourselves on the back and I'll see you in the next video.